So once again,
we have somewhat of a choice to make here.
We definitely are going to need
to make some product an average,
take either slices or vector references.
I'm gonna start by just
doing References and
now I should be able to
call some of numbers.
But of course that's not gonna
compile because I need to borrow it.
So I can do it like that and
then product ampersand numbers,
not double ampersand and
finally average of ampersand numbers.
Okay, next we want to
go look at this first
three function which
is going to take some,
either a slice of ice 64 or
a reference to a vector of ice 64.
And then is gonna return a slice.
So let's start by having it work that way.
Now notice, by the way that
when we call first three we're
potentially giving it an own copy of this.
So if we want, we don't necessarily
need to make any change here.
If we want, we can just like leave this
alone and just have it pass in the own
value, but that is a little bit more
restrictive in the sense that we are just
returning slices here so
we don't necessarily need to do that.
But as we'll see in a second,
if I try to do it this way,
it actually makes it a little bit more
annoying and complicated to try and
express how we're gonna be
returning these slices.
And in fact,
it's gonna cause a problem when I change
the return type to try to return a slice.
So let's just see that problem and
actually, then we'll solve it.
Okay, so we will return two slices
one contain the first three elements
in numbers one, the other contain
the first three elements, numbers two.
So here's the syntax for doing that.
So I'm just gonna say let
slice one equals that.
And so that's gonna be numbers one and
then this is gonna be numbers two.
And this is gonna be slice two.
All right, so we have two slices now,
so far so good.
And now I want to return them.
So let's see what happens when
I go to return these slices.
So instead of numbers one or numbers two,
I'm now returning slice one and slice two.
Okay, well immediately
we're gonna have a problem,
which is a type mismatch
because it's saying, hey,
I expected a vac of Ice 64 because
that's what it says we're returning.
But when I actually got was
a slice of ice 64, okay?
Fair enough, so
let's change this to be returning slices.
And now we have a new problem, which is
it says, hey, missing lifetime specify,
this function has returned type contains
a borrowed value within the lighted
lifetime, but the lifetime cannot
be derived from the arguments.
So we wanna pause here and just imagine if
we hadn't just gone through this section
on ownership, borrowing and lifetimes.
What would you think
of this error message?
Missing lifetime specifier this functions
return type contains a borrowed value
within a lighted lifetime, with a lifetime
cannot be derived from the arguments,
what could that possibly mean?
Hopefully now you can see from this
error message, a why we spent so
much time building up to this and b,
why the course gets into this stuff.
These things can be incredibly frustrating
as a beginner if you have no idea what any
of this terminology means.
So the reason that I spent so
much time in this course like building up
a mental model of how the memory works,
and the purpose of each of these things
is, I don't expect you to have a perfect
understanding of these
things by this point.
But hopefully,
especially if you wanna go back and
re-review some of the parts
of the workshop earlier.
This gives you some sense
of what's going on here.
So basically, what it's saying is hey, I
couldn't figure out what the lifetimes of
these things could be,
I couldn't successfully allied them.
So I need you to add a lifetime
specifier to do that.
So that's what we're gonna have to do.
We're gonna have to actually change
this to be not just ampersand but
something like tick a and possibly tick b.
So let's try it with tick a first and
see what happens, so it says okay,
use of undeclared lifetime tick a.
All right, fair enough I forgot to do
that let's just put that in there.
Okay, great now we're doing this.
So, I've now said okay,
these two slices have the same lifetime.
These two slices that I'm
returning same lifetime.
Great, but
I've got an error it says cod return value
referencing function parameter numbers two
returns a value referencing data
owned by the current function.
So what does that mean?
Data owned by the current function.
Well, we've declared these
as owned arguments, right?
I decided I wasn't gonna change
this to be a reference type, so
this is now an owned vac.
If I had an ampersand here, it would be
a reference but I didn't, so not there.
[LAUGH] If I had an ampersand here,
it would be an owned vac.
But I didn't do that instead,
I'm accepting an owned value.
And one of the things we know about owned
values is if this function owns this vac,
it's gonna get deallocated at the end.
So here, this is receiving
from a use after free, right?
So I'm trying to return
slices to this thing,
but also I'm going to be
deallocating it by default,
this would be a use after free but
instead it's a no, no.
I Can't return a value
referencing this parameter
because this references data owned by the
current function and owned by really is
kind of translated into is going
to get de allocated at the end of.
So that's what the error is telling us.
It's saying these owned values are a
problem because [LAUGH] They're gonna get
de allocated at the end here.
So how do we fix that?
Well, we don't make them owned,
we make them be references.
Okay, so let's do that and
then go back to first three here and so
now in order to pass those in,
I need to borrow them.
Okay, that's why it was complaining
that there's a red squiggle there, so
we fixed that.
So now that type mismatch is fixed,
great, but now we come back and
we have another error.
Says explicit lifetime required in
the type of numbers one lifetime
tick a required.
This is an interesting example where
it figured out that it's like okay,
I know that there should be
a lifetime annotation here.
I need you to write it out but
I also know what it is, which is,
[LAUGH] I know that it's tick a.
This is kind of a weird case of the
example of like lifetime illusion where
it's like it was able to figure out
what the lifetime should have been, but
it still wants you to write it out.
Again, imagine seeing this, [LAUGH] like
for the first time when you're a beginner,
if you don't know what lifetimes are,
it can be kinda confusing.
So all right, we're gonna add tick
a in both of these places, and hey,
look at that.
No more compile errors,
let's see what happens when we run it.
Cool, first of all with a slice one,
R 2, 4 and 6,
the first VM with slice, two R 1,2 and 3.
Great everything worked.
Now real quick, I want to point out this
is not the only way to solve solve this.
There is another way we could do this,
which is if we wanted to,
we could actually claim that these
two have decoupled lifetimes,
I could add a second lifetime here and
say tick b.
So let me try something
that's not gonna work.
And then we'll see how
it's gonna not work.
So let's say I added a tick b here.
And I just said, you know what?
Just this one has tick b says,
wait a minute.
No, that's an error, what's the error?
It says lifetime mismatch.
[LAUGH] So basically it says this
parameter and the return type are declared
with different lifetimes, but
data from numbers two is returned here.
So basically I said this argument
has the lifetime tick b, but
then I referenced it in slice two and try
to return that and then when over here I
claimed that has the lifetime tick and
it's like no, no that's wrong.
See these are connected this is a slice
of numbers two, numbers two has
lifetime tick b, therefore slice two
also needs to have a lifetime of tick b.
And sure enough, if I change this to that,
now it's happy again, and
everything's cool.
So what's the difference between
this version with tick a and
tick b versus the version I had
a second ago were both are tick a?
Well, basically this version that I have
here is sort of strictly more flexible,
because this accepts more possibilities
than the other way that I have it where
everything was today.
Another way of saying this
is that here I'm saying,
you can give me any numbers when you want.
And FYI, I'm gonna return a tuple where
the first thing has the same lifetime as
whatever you gave me for numbers one.
Also, if you wanna give me something
with a totally different lifetime for
numbers two, that's cool.
Just FYI I'm going to return something in
the second position of the tuple that has
the same lifetime as whatever
you give me for numbers two.
In contrast, when I use tick a for
everything, I was actually saying that but
something a little bit stronger than that,
which is I'm saying all of these have
the same lifetime, but they don't
actually need to have the same lifetime.
So I mentioned this because [LAUGH] This
is something I have run into before where
sometimes I've been accidentally overly
strict in my lifetime annotations where I
just went through and I was like.
Yeah, okay, I'll tick a,
tick a if you want some lifetime
annotations here have a bunch of tick a's.
And then later on, I found that I couldn't
actually call it passing the things that
I wanted to call because I'd been too
strict with my lifetime annotations.
So, it can't be worth thinking about this.
Especially if you run into errors
where it's saying like, hey,
these things need to have
the same lifetime but they don't.
Sometimes if you take a second look at it,
you can realize, you know what,
actually they don't all need to be tick a.
I can relax that a little bit and
say only these two are connected.
These two are connected, but they
don't all have to be exactly the same.